#summary Outline of the requirements for Milestone 2
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Source Code Repository =
  Source code for Luminance for this milestone can be found here:
  [http://code.google.com/p/cmpt371t1/source/checkout]

= Development =
  Documentation for the development team can be viewed here: DevTeam

= Testing =
  The plan for testing can be viewed here: TestPlan <br>
  Documentation for the test team can be viewed here: TestTeam<br>
  The user evaluation plan can be viewed here: UserEvaluations<br>
  Use cases that have been written so far can be viewed here: UseCaseScenarios

= Mini-Milestone List =
 The updated project plan we have set can be viewed here:  MilestonePlan

 CPM Diagram: http://code.google.com/p/cmpt371t1/wiki/MilestonePlan#CPM_Diagram

= Risk Analysis =
 The updated risk report can be viewed at: RiskReport

= Requirements =
 Updated requirements can be viewed at: [Requirements]

= Team Roles and Activity Log =
 The team roles can be found at: http://code.google.com/p/cmpt371t1/people/list

 The activity log can be viewed at: ProjectMemberTime

= Code Reviews =
 The code review process is documented at CodeReviewProcess.
 
 Code reviews are documented at CodeReviews.
 
= Refinement of our Software Development Process =

 The software engineering processes we have been using can be viewed here: SoftwareEngineeringProcesses

= Current State of the System =

 The status report can be viewed here: StatusReport

 The class diagram from this prototype can be viewed here: ClassDiagram

= Initial Analysis for Deliverable 3 =
 == Deliverable plan ==
 Any project artifacts that were modified or created since the first two milestones will be part of Deliverable 3:

   * Updated Risk Report - Includes an updated analysis of previous risks, as well as new risks that have been introduced
   * Version Control Strategy - How to ensure that developers do not commit code that will compromise the build.
   * GUI Test Suite - Continuing work with Robotium.
   * jUnit Test Suite - Continuing work with the unit test suite.
   * jCoverage Test Suite - The code coverage test suite.
   * Software Quality - The latest measurements of quality using code reviews.

 In addition, the following implementation-specific tasks are anticipated:
  * Alpha Version Complete - A working alpha version of the game should be complete.
  * Level Format - The game level format will be analyzed and implemented.
  * Sounds, special effects, lighting complete.
  * Multiple playable levels.
  * Game Level Editor - A tool to create new game levels.


 == Estimate of size and time ==
|| *Task* || *Estimate time (hours)* ||
|| Full Alpha version of game || 24 ||
|| Continuing Robotium test suite || 8 ||
|| Continuing jUnit test suite || 8 ||
|| jCoverage test suite || 8 ||
|| Code Reviews || 6 ||
|| Level Format || 8 ||
|| Sounds, special effects, lighting || 10 ||
|| Multiple levels || 8 ||