#summary Brief summary of weekly meetings
<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

= Introduction =

Weekly meeting minutes.

= January 31, 2011 =
  # Code Review - Zenja
    * People from different teams review other team member's code
    * Round robin
  # Additions to Risk Report
  # Basic use case scenarios
  # Requirements wiki page
    * User Requirements
    * Functionality Requirements
  # UI Prototype
    * Paper prototype
    * Video of old system

= January 27, 2011=

  # Mini Milestone list - Stephen
  # Risk - Chet
  # Source Code - Stephen
  # Test documentation (What we have, what we do in future) - Test Team
  # Documentation of Code Review - wait for clarification
  # Wiki outline deliverable - Martina
  # Documentation of Personal - Done
  # Activity Report - Kum
  # Paper/GUI describing second deliverable - Design Team

Time: 

= January 26, 2011 =
  # What's done
  # Stephen: Working spinning box on the svn repo and basic architecture working.
  # Kai: UML Diagram is done with Visual Diagram
  # TestTeam: Bug assignment page now scrapped, the bug issuer spam's e-mails.
  
  # For next meeting
  # Sten: Looking at Check Style
  # Chet: Risk will be done by Friday
  # Jonny: Input on touch screen
  # TestTeam: Still working on concept on ant build and smoke test
  # Issue Tracking: Owner change to Fix status then Triage/Test Team change to Verified
  
Time: 2 hours

= January 24, 2011 =

  # Test team has a starting task.
  # Triage team has a starting task.
  # Development Team: 
      * Flush out the architecture 
      * Draw a bunch of Class Diagrams
  # Start breaking into respective groups and start working!

Time: 2 hours

= January 21, 2011 =

  # Everyone should update their duties.  Go to "Project Home" -> People -> Update your duties.
  # A template for ALL our issues is setup in Google code and might be modified by Jeff in the future.  All     issues posted should follow this.
  # Everyone should read the getting started on development wiki page and have their development environment setup by the next meeting.
  # Martina is our meeting manager now.  Her word is rule.
  # The Triage team is in charge of accepting bugs and will discuss with the dev team who will fix it.
  # Design team will meet next and Stephen will bring a basic domain diagram for the first design team meeting.

Time: 2 hours