#summary User evaluation process
=User Evaluations=


*Target Market Demographic:*

		Luminance is geared towards everyone who is a fan of challenges in arcade, interactive puzzles, strategy based game play. Replay value will be a significant part of the game dynamic.

		_*Casual busy gamers:*_ People who have no time to commit to hardcore  games can play while on public transportation, waiting for an appointment, through coffee breaks and lunch time.

		_*Students:*_ Students can refresh their minds during study breaks, long speeches/lectures, and supplement their instant gratification needs.

		_*Arcade Gamers:*_ Old school arcade gamers who enjoy playing 1942, Angry Birds, etc..

*Evaluation Goals:*

		   Assert the software we are making is the software that the user wants.

		   Assert the way we are implementing the project is fulfills the user wants.

		   Measure the real world usability versus potential usability in ideal conditions.

		   Gain instant feedback for game developers/designers on existing features.

		   Gain direction for the project’s future goals expand or entrench the project.

		   Revise allocation of resources for the addition of new features in the project.

*Evaluation Method:*

*Process:*

			#.	Gather experienced/inexperienced participants
			#.	Give out each participant from both groups their respective usability test reports
					*	Have each participant fill out “User information section” of report
			#	Split the participants into control and experiment groups
			#	Move the groups into their separate testing areas
			#.	Give each participant Android phone/ Android emulator with Luminance started
					*	Android phones/emulators configured to record and time user input location, frequency and game actions.
			#.	Start a timer (up to 10 min.)
					*	Testing control group
						*	A tester will explain the premise of the game
						*	A tester will guide and walkthrough the participants through the games first level to play the game as intended.
					*	Testing experiment group
						*	Participants will not be allowed to talk to each other
						*	A tester will watch over each participant record how long grasp of basic functionality took.
						*	Participants will play the first level of the game
			#.	Have participants complete rest of their usability test reports
			#.	If participants want discuss and record thoughts on the game.
			#.	Release all participants
			#.	Organize the usability reports into control and experiment
			#.	Find the [exp] marked questions average for both groups
			#.	Experiment(avg)/control(avg) = % intuitiveness/clarity
			#.	Look over Control Experienced group for implementation specific feedback
			#.	Look over Experiment inexperienced group for usability feedback

*Participants:*

			_*Experienced users:*_ Computer science students/engineering students/gamer students

				With these users we will receive technical, development specific feedback.

			_*Inexperienced users:*_ Arts students/Anonymous

				With these users we will receive our target demographic usability feedback.

*Groups:*

			*	a) Control group ( 5 experienced people)

			*	b) Experiment group ( 5 experienced people)

			*	c) Control group ( 5 inexperienced  people )

			*	d) Experiment group ( 5 inexperienced people )

*Implementation Plan:*

			Day 1:

				Every member finds 2 experienced people to test our game

				Groups a) and b) are tested

			Day 2:

				Test team goes to crowded place in campus finds inexperienced persons

				Groups c) and d) are tested
		



==Usability Test Report(User level)==

*THANK YOU! :* Welcome to the team!.

We hope you will have so much fun playing our game!  If not, tell us why.  We will do all we can so you will enjoy our game to its maximum potential.

												-Luminance team

*User Information* (Before Starting): If you don’t know skip the question.

			#.	Do you like puzzle games?
			#.	Have you ever played a mobile or touch game before?
			#.	Realistically how long a time period would you give for learning to play a new mobile game before you abandon it?
			#.	What would be you boredom level (1: most bored – 10: fun ) before playing a mobile game:

*Game Rating*: (When you're finished):

		Feel free to elaborate on any and all points.

*Game Aspects:* (out of 10) 1: Sucks! 5: Average 10: Awesome!
			
			*	Logic (game premise) (exp):
			*	Ease of Use (game controls) (exp):
			*	Camera (viewing angle):
			*	Audio (music/effects):
			*	Performance (responsiveness):
			*	Interface (looks):
			*	Overall Game Rating (be honest) (exp):
				*	As a Real Game:
				*	As a game in development:

*Like/Dislike:*

		#.	(exp) How long did it take you to learn this game or want to keep playing it:
		#.	Complete the statements:
				*	The game was:
				*	Because:
				*	The game needed:
				*	I like this game( circle):  yes or no
				*	I would play this game(circle): yes or no
		#.	_LIKED_ about this game:
		#.	_DISLIKED_ about this game:

*Game Ideas:* (write all over this section)**

		New features: (ideas to help make the game better)

		Old features: (you would like to see improved, in what way)

		Comments:

*Bugs/Errors:* (more bugs the better)

		#	When/Where did the bug occur:
			*	Effects/What happened:
			*	What actions led to the bug:
			*
		# .. (feel free to continue on the back)